README.md, before:

# Lunar assembler

SVG maps from OpenStreetMap data in browser.

Fully functional example is at [mapsaregreat.com/osm_to_svg_in_browser/](https://mapsaregreat.com/osm_to_svg_in_browser/)

Lunar assembler is a JS library allowing easy setup of static websites allowing this (thank to amazing Overpass API).

Code used to run mentioned example can be found in example folder.

## In action

[try it!](https://mapsaregreat.com/osm_to_svg_in_browser/)

![examples/lunar_assembler_in_action.gif](examples/lunar_assembler_in_action.gif)

## Published

[dev version served from this repo](https://matkoniecz.github.io/lunar_assembler/examples/dev.html)

dev version of a laser map styles are also served from this repo

[ultra-high zoom style relying on area:highway, for showing a single crossing](https://matkoniecz.github.io/lunar_assembler/examples/dev-laser-road-style-pattern.html)

[high zoom map style for showing neighbourhood, with some attempts to automatically simplify data, no need for area:highway](https://matkoniecz.github.io/lunar_assembler/examples/dev-laser-neighbourhood.html)

[current release and (for now only known use of it)](https://mapsaregreat.com/osm_to_svg_in_browser/)

## How can I use it on my site?

This work is AGPL licensed. This means that you also can use it, with requirement to share your improvements (see license for the full info, this is a single-sentence summary).

[examples](examples) folder contains files necessary to use that in you project:

- `lunar_assembler.dist.js` (build .js file containing all necessary JS code)
- `lunar_assembler.dist.css` (build .js file containing all necessary CSS code)
- `high_zoom_map_style.js` (map style used in my example, you can build on it or make your own)
- `dev.html` (example usage of `lunar_assembler`, using that map style)

Feel free to use it in your own projects or build on it!

Pull requests with improvements are also welcomed!

## How can I make own map style?

Map style can be quite simple - just setting colors for lines/areas.

In some cases one needs to somehow deals with layers. For example, what should be displayed if road in tunnel goes under building? Or under forest? What should be shown if there is a lake in a forest?

The most complex part of default map style is dealing with layers.

Map styles also have access to a powerful functionality allowing complete rewriting of geometries, what is necessary to implement some functionality but typically can be ignored.

## Potential uses

SVG files may be much more accessible for futher processing than alternatives formats of OSM data.

SVG files may be directly usable for some purposes, for example in laser cutters.

## Mentions of use are welcome

In case that you used this code or it inspired you to do something - feel free to create an issue with photo/description of what was produced! Or send an email to [matkoniecz@tutanota.com](mailto:matkoniecz@tutanota.com). It would be nice to have confirmation that publishing it was useful for somebody.

## Improving documentation

Please create a new issue if you want to use it but current instructions are insufficient, wrong or can be in some way improved!

I know that documentation may be far better, but I am not sure what kind of additional documentation would be most useful.

## Alternatives

As usual [OSM Wiki documentation](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/SVG#Ways_to_create_an_SVG_map_from_OpenStreetMap) is useful.

## Skipped and rejected features

Note that it is basically impossible to make SVGs that would qualify as high-quality cartography here. As reason why this project exists does not require it (generation of laser cutter designs) it was not considered during design and implementation. But feel free to open issues and create pull requests to add missing functionality!

### Example map style

Exact duplicates of more popular standard tags will not be supported (for example `landcover=water` or `landcover=trees`).

`landuse=reservoir`, `landuse=depot` will not be supported due to being a bad tagging schemes.

Note that making own website with own map style should be relatively easy and anyone interested is able to make their own map style.

Please open an issue if you wanted to do this but you are stuck.

## Sponsors

<a href="https://osmfoundation.org/"><img src="images_for_description/logo_osmf.png" height="100"/></a><br/>

The [OpenStreetMap foundation](https://wiki.osmfoundation.org/wiki/Main_Page) was funding the development of this project in their first round of the [microgrant program](https://wiki.osmfoundation.org/wiki/Microgrants) in 2020. It was done as part of making [tactile maps based on OpenStreetMap data, for blind or visually impaired children](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Microgrants/Microgrants_2020/Proposal/Tactile_maps_for_blind_or_visually_impaired_children) (part of making used tools accessible to other and OpenStreetMap promotion).

If anyone else is also interested in supporting this project via funding - [let me know](mailto:osm-messages@etutanota.com) (opening a new issue is also OK) and it is likely that some way of doing that can be found :)

Commit message:

better style listing in README

README.md, after:

# Lunar assembler

SVG maps from OpenStreetMap data in browser.

Fully functional example is at [mapsaregreat.com/osm_to_svg_in_browser/](https://mapsaregreat.com/osm_to_svg_in_browser/)

Lunar assembler is a JS library allowing easy setup of static websites allowing this (thank to amazing Overpass API).

Code used to run mentioned example can be found in example folder.

## In action

[try it!](https://mapsaregreat.com/osm_to_svg_in_browser/)

![examples/lunar_assembler_in_action.gif](examples/lunar_assembler_in_action.gif)

## Published

[dev version pf basic high-zoom map style](https://matkoniecz.github.io/lunar_assembler/examples/dev.html)

[map with classification for public and private areas, using mapped fences, walls, footways and roads](https://matkoniecz.github.io/lunar_assembler/examples/example-closed-areas.html)

### For making 3D tactile maps for blind

[ultra-high zoom style relying on area:highway, for showing a single crossing](https://matkoniecz.github.io/lunar_assembler/examples/dev-laser-road-style-pattern.html)

[high zoom map style for showing neighbourhood, with some attempts to automatically simplify data, no need for area:highway](https://matkoniecz.github.io/lunar_assembler/examples/dev-laser-neighbourhood.html)

### Use on other sites

[current release and (for now only known use of it)](https://mapsaregreat.com/osm_to_svg_in_browser/)

## How can I use it on my site?

This work is AGPL licensed. This means that you also can use it, with requirement to share your improvements (see license for the full info, this is a single-sentence summary).

[examples](examples) folder contains files necessary to use that in you project:

- `lunar_assembler.dist.js` (build .js file containing all necessary JS code)
- `lunar_assembler.dist.css` (build .js file containing all necessary CSS code)
- `high_zoom_map_style.js` (map style used in my example, you can build on it or make your own)
- `dev.html` (example usage of `lunar_assembler`, using that map style)

Feel free to use it in your own projects or build on it!

Pull requests with improvements are also welcomed!

## How can I make own map style?

Map style can be quite simple - just setting colors for lines/areas.

In some cases one needs to somehow deals with layers. For example, what should be displayed if road in tunnel goes under building? Or under forest? What should be shown if there is a lake in a forest?

The most complex part of default map style is dealing with layers.

Map styles also have access to a powerful functionality allowing complete rewriting of geometries, what is necessary to implement some functionality but typically can be ignored.

## Potential uses

SVG files may be much more accessible for futher processing than alternatives formats of OSM data.

SVG files may be directly usable for some purposes, for example in laser cutters.

## Mentions of use are welcome

In case that you used this code or it inspired you to do something - feel free to create an issue with photo/description of what was produced! Or send an email to [matkoniecz@tutanota.com](mailto:matkoniecz@tutanota.com). It would be nice to have confirmation that publishing it was useful for somebody.

## Improving documentation

Please create a new issue if you want to use it but current instructions are insufficient, wrong or can be in some way improved!

I know that documentation may be far better, but I am not sure what kind of additional documentation would be most useful.

## Alternatives

As usual [OSM Wiki documentation](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/SVG#Ways_to_create_an_SVG_map_from_OpenStreetMap) is useful.

## Skipped and rejected features

Note that it is basically impossible to make SVGs that would qualify as high-quality cartography here. As reason why this project exists does not require it (generation of laser cutter designs) it was not considered during design and implementation. But feel free to open issues and create pull requests to add missing functionality!

### Example map style

Exact duplicates of more popular standard tags will not be supported (for example `landcover=water` or `landcover=trees`).

`landuse=reservoir`, `landuse=depot` will not be supported due to being a bad tagging schemes.

Note that making own website with own map style should be relatively easy and anyone interested is able to make their own map style.

Please open an issue if you wanted to do this but you are stuck.

## Sponsors

<a href="https://osmfoundation.org/"><img src="images_for_description/logo_osmf.png" height="100"/></a><br/>

The [OpenStreetMap foundation](https://wiki.osmfoundation.org/wiki/Main_Page) was funding the development of this project in their first round of the [microgrant program](https://wiki.osmfoundation.org/wiki/Microgrants) in 2020. It was done as part of making [tactile maps based on OpenStreetMap data, for blind or visually impaired children](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Microgrants/Microgrants_2020/Proposal/Tactile_maps_for_blind_or_visually_impaired_children) (part of making used tools accessible to other and OpenStreetMap promotion).

If anyone else is also interested in supporting this project via funding - [let me know](mailto:osm-messages@etutanota.com) (opening a new issue is also OK) and it is likely that some way of doing that can be found :)
